now  a drug addict and see i've been on that  i've been in that boat where i still am  to an extent because technically yeah i  mean i use drugs you know um  recreationally whatever  drug addict now  for some reason that just becomes  all-encompassing of their life that's  all they care about now is that drugs  so do you still  use fentanyl or you're opposite now or  heroin  [Music]  for a while now how old are you  i'll be 41 in november  41 years old  combat right now  in afghanistan  see i got i got injured in [ __ ] when i  was in the military so  um  i got hooked on opiates a long time ago  i get 3 600 a month from the va man and  i go through that in two weeks  anywhere from five about four to five  thousand more  so  you can break that down day by day  it's a lot of money how do you eat and  have money to  to get drugs  only  yeah  [Music]  do you have any kids  yeah i have a 16 year old daughter i  haven't spoken in years  [Music]  do you keep in touch with your family or  your child or your child  [Music]  [Music]  no  recently i dealt with somebody that you  know  thought you know  might have loved me  thought they loved the kid  no  that drug drug addicts are all  encompassing all they care about is  themselves and their drugs that's it not  their family not their loved ones not  people who care for them but their  children  that drug will take over  the whole life and that will just  dominate  every waking moment  goes to indulging at me i've seen good  what i would consider to be good people  you know people have a decent moral  fortitude  you know just just um  just abandoned bad and they're you know  bad on their kids and their loved ones  abandon their friends  abandon everything everything that's not  about you know getting that drug  can you tell us something your mom  doesn't know my mom  doesn't know  oh  drugs  [ __ ] me drugs holy [ __ ]  ha mom oh mom drugs  drugs my mom drugs mother doesn't know  drugs what does she don't know oh  fak movie drugs i talk to her i'm like  yeah you [ __ ] no drugs of course you  do she's like ah i don't have [ __ ]  [ __ ]  yeah yes i [ __ ] know drugs  drugs  a lot of left-wing people like to use  this vague term  agency the sense of human agency and  it's an important concept even if i  don't particularly dig the jargon i'm  going to be responding in this video to  yet another comment from my uh former  patreon supporter mod vegan apparently  she just uh quit my my patreon uh in a  rage she is offended and again  apparently she's rage quit out of my out  of my patreon she's no longer a patreon  supporter she says uh quote 2000 is the  figure advertised by the chinese  government it likely  represents a small fraction of the  actual number well i don't know modve i  don't think you've done research on  social sciences for china um but also  the so she's claiming the number 2000 is  a small first natural number i can say  the opposite i don't know what  percentage of the 2 000 people executed  have anything to do with with drug  dealing or drug offenses and in china i  should mention it is not a drug it's not  a death penalty defense to be a drug  addict or drug user it's for drug  trafficking for drug dealing drug  smuggling those are death penalty events  not being a  drug addict you will find if you just  google a little bit they do have  rehabilitation programs for people who  are drug addicts trying to recover some  of them amazingly even linked to  religion i was just reading an article  about that now i happen to google and  find it where they even have christian  missionaries  trying to save people's souls who are  who are drug addicts so you know they  have the usual mixed policy that relies  on what i think is a convenient moral  illusion that somehow drug dealers are  be are the ones to blame that they're  the ones making an ethical choice and  that drug users drug consumers are not  now as a vegan especially that's a very  very strange perspective i think vegans  in general blame the demand side of the  equation we blame the fact that there is  a demand for meat  we tend not to blame the middlemen  producing meat we tend not to blame  the slaughterhouse workers because we  know as long as people are wanting to  buy meat other people are going to want  to trade in meat produce meat slaughter  meat etc so we tend to say look we have  to take a demand-centered approach to  this we're trying to eliminate the  demand for meat and not um trying to be  overly punitive to people who happen to  be employees of a slaughterhouse or have  to be middlemen in that so by the same  token  i don't buy  the depiction of drug addicts as  passive victims who have no agency  there's that word agency again that i  opened this video talking about uh and  only drug dealers as having agencies or  drug drug dealers is having moral  responsibility for the situation we can  say the opposite as long as people are  willing to pay for cocaine somebody's  going to be growing it and somebody is  going to be dealing it but nevertheless  of course there's more responsibility on  both sides people make a choice to be a  drug dealer but people also make a  morally significant choice in being a  drug user and don't take that away from  them don't dehumanize drug addicts  don't treat them as something superhuman  or something subhuman ten dollars for a  flap  can i say  that's a 10 flap of fentanyl here in  downtown east side addiction is nothing  new  heroine has flowed through vancouver's  ports to this deprived part of town  since the 1970s  but market forces have seen that heroin  supply replaced  fentanyl is stronger cheaper and much  less bulky to import  what's fentanyl done to the community  around here  destroyed it  i lost like 40 people that i know well  close to me in the last three years  people never did drugs in their life  picked it up once dead from pencil from  fennel  is it possible any of them got that  offensive from you  it's possible  does that bother you  to an extent but they're going to get  this from somebody right  heroin it used to come in its heroin  this fentanyl we're making it ourselves  you go online on the on the dark web you  order an ounce of fentanyl from china  cost you 350 bucks  pay an extra 50 bucks the next day is  delivered right to your door  you take that hundred dollars with the  fentanyl yeah and you make a thousand  grams of down yeah and you're getting  anywhere between 100 120 per gram  so do the math quote i lived in  vancouver for five years and spent time  with people on the lower east side many  are victims of racism and quite a large  number are first nations people close  quote  really  so let's talk about agency and let's  talk about personal moral responsibility  if a white person becomes a drug addict  that's their choice that's their  responsibility  they're morally culpable  for the consequences of their actions  but you're telling me that someone who  is a victim of racism is not  you're you're dehumanizing that is a  racist perspective i know you may think  modvegan that your perspective is  anti-racist  but it's not your perspective is  actually racist you're actually treating  these people as sub-human you're  treating them as less responsible for  the choices they make for the  consequences of their actions  and that is from my perspective evil  now if a black person chooses to become  a drug addict  is that choice different from a white  person making the ch making the decision  if a cree person or an ojibwe person  makes that choice is it different from a  white person making that choice  is it in what way  i mean it is very easy for me to say for  example  my grandmother this is going back a long  time my grandmother's deceased now my  grandmother actually did have to face  organized institutional systemic racism  against her because she was a jew who  wanted to become a dentist it was  formally overtly written in the  institutions they had anti-jewish  policies i'm not joking so it wasn't  like a cr an attitude or hidden you know  they had like a quota and so on for how  many jews they'd they let in  institutions what have you there were  openly newspapers used to be like that  too i remember they used to have only a  certain number of jewish  reporters whom to have you okay  that's a certain context for becoming a  dentist today i can say for sure if you  meet someone who has successfully become  a dentist and they are cree or ojibwe or  mohawk you could talk to them about the  types of racism mostly informal not  formally written that way that they had  to overcome the disadvantages that have  come absolutely that's a very meaningful  and very important  you know context talk about but if you  talk to the same person if you talk to a  career or a giveaway person who  successfully became a dentist and you  have this kind of attitude that somehow  first nations people are not really  responsible for their own moral  decisions in the same way that a white  person would be the same way that a  black person would be  god damn you that's evil  that is a form of prejudice and racism  no less evil than the opposite it is  based on dehumanizing these people  disregarding their agency disregarding  their responsibility for their own moral  choices and actions and for their  consequences  so i brought the briefcase to show you  guys it's a nice brief instagram  well  so i found this bag right at ralph's  right as you know as almost last call it  was like i don't know one o'clock in the  morning right this briefcase right is is  leaning up against the side of ralph's  like right in front of the main door  right it's just like to the side of it  right  like a week we maybe a week and past  five days or so i was with somebody and  we're um  uh i'm gonna drive i'm driving my car  right i knew what all those drugs were  except the white substance which i  assumed was cocaine but you know be  cautious you know i opened it right and  i'm just like  smell it you know  smell it like cocaine has a distinct  smell  right it's been a while since i've done  coke so i was like uh maybe  maybe my nose is a little off it doesn't  smell like coke but i remember  so i tasted it i put my fingernail  no  i'm just like  it doesn't taste like coke either i  started to feel kind of weird right but  i wasn't really sure like i thought it  was just me because it's kind of late i  just got tired  get in the car get on the freeway i  remember i was thinking myself i better  pull over right now [ __ ] around me  next thing i know  i woke up i was like oh i feel like i  got electrocuted oh i woke up and  there's two cops standing next to me  like like i'm laying down right and i  guess i'm in the back of an ambulance i  think so  you know and i don't really know what  happened i just opened the cops like hey  hey where's the fentanyl  it's like what what i said i thought it  was cocaine come to find out that they  narcoed me  in the ambulance because i guess i  wasn't breathing when they pulled up  right so basically i passed out while i  was driving i didn't make it to the side  of the freeway passed out right i was  driving  right on the freeway luckily it was like  two o'clock in the morning there was a  lot of traffic right cops happened to be  really close by highway patrol  and they were there and that's what they  call the ambulance because it wasn't  breathing an ambulance right and that's  what they narco wake me up so anyway i i  start to put it together i'm like holy  [ __ ] [ __ ]  like that  what the [ __ ] right i was like that was  not cocaine and uh i ended up staying in  the hospital for like  two nights i think i left my third day  because i guess when i was falling  asleep  uh my breathing would go so low that  they were afraid that i was like gonna  die because it stopped breathing they  said i've stopped breathing twice like  once in the ambulance and then once in  the emergency room and then when i would  fall asleep they said i would only take  like maybe three or four breaths a  minute and you're supposed to take like  over ten  so they're like a little concerned so  they kept me there with this narco drip  to try to get the effects of the  fentanyl to wear off and they said that  i ingested three times the lethal dose  okay uh becoming an alcoholic  becoming a  addict to say a soft drug like marijuana  becoming an act  to heroin there's a series of choices  there but unless you're talking about  extreme situations where somebody is a  captive and somebody else is injecting  the heroin into them i have actually  read about cases like that  i've done some disturbing research in my  life with a few very very straight few  exceptions where people's agency is  taken away from them  they are the ones making this series of  moral decisions  and think about how insulting it is to  all the cree people and all the ojibwe  people who choose sobriety the kree  people choose whether or not they become  dentists whether or not they have  successful careers or have an education  review i've met those people and a lot  of them i've met many korean ojibwe  people who had a period of drug  addiction or maybe whether it was  alcohol or drugs or both usually both um  and then they cleaned up and went back  to school they made that decision after  having that experience they made that  commitment to sobriety they made that  choice  you really think it's different from a  white person doing it you really think  it's different from a black person  really  and  you have to learn to talk about  indigenous people  as people  period  period not superhuman not subhuman  they're people they're responsible for  their actions in the same way that we  are do they have the same opportunities  that we do  not always no as i said for my  grandmother it was difficult to become a  dentist but she did it uh for like you  know i'm just thinking of hand korean  ojibwe people i knew personally like  there was many of them were in  university when i knew them in toronto  and in saskatchewan  sure  incredibly difficult for them to not  impossible but sure if i think about  from them starting off at you know lac  la range reservation to get the science  education they need and go through the  process to become a dentist not easy  definitely definitely very difficult but  um yeah becoming a becoming a drug  addict is easy and um  they're responsible for their own  choices um they don't have the same  opportunities that a white person born  in toronto has it would have been much  easier for me to become a dentist than  for them to become a dentist partly  because i already had a grandmother's  dentist but it is  you you can't  treat that lack of opportunity as if it  is some kind of  uh psychological difference that would  make them passive victims  in  of of drug addiction rather than people  with agency making those moral choices  themselves okay um she says quote i  don't think that threatening people with  death to make the problems of poverty  racism and mental illness more palatable  is a genuine solution was i talking  about solving poverty  was i talking about solving racism was i  talking about solving mental illness  that's that's a completely insincere  completely unfair argument mod and you  know it  okay i was not talking about the death  penalty to solve poverty racism or  mental illness you're completely  misrepresenting my argument in every way  i think you know that's an unfair and  dishonest response from you  uh she says continue quote i'm  definitely opposed to authoritarianism  so if that makes me a liberal or  whatever okay fair enough um  [Music]  something else modvegan said to me just  a couple of days ago i really wanted to  record a response to  and i'll state it now because from my  perspective it is linked or it is  parallel um  in a recent debate between vegan gains  and matt dillahunty vegan gains said  very casually as a throwaway line that  he thought it was morally acceptable for  indigenous people to engage in hunting  for survival i said in the present tense  he didn't say two thousand years ago now  i know vegan games are saying this very  spontaneously in a debate i'm not  holding him to this or something as his  official position he said it in passing  it is very interesting to me to see the  extent to which veganism in 2018 has  matured to the point of being in that  sense soft on hunting  uh there's an opposite point of view  that also exists in veganism animal  rights that each animal basically has a  soul so to murder an animal in hunting  it doesn't matter if the person is an  indigenous person it doesn't matter if  the hunter is an indigenous person  living in the jungle or if the hunter is  a white person who's a millionaire on  vacation that fundamentally this is an  act of murder because the animal wants  soul that is a different perspective  that's also represented  in veganism and there are debates  between those two  uh people who who regard animal rights  as something intrinsic to the animal and  people who take more of a socially  relative view of it this way  i would challenge you under this same  heading we've just been talking about  indigenous people and their  responsibility for making their own  choices about drugs and alcohol  um  in the year 2018  i think it is really false to talk about  indigenous people as if they are living  in a museum devoted to their own ancient  past they're not they're living in the  same world that you and i are living in  here and now with many of the same  choices  not all the same opportunities many  disadvantages in terms of opportunity  opportunities but the same choices with  the same moral consequences  in the same sense that a white person  living in the suburbs makes serious  sacrifices to be engaged in hunting as a  hobby  the native people i have known have had  to make serious sacrifices to engage in  hunting as a hobby okay now what do i  mean a lot of time a lot of money a lot  of hard work a lot of blood to clean up  oh if you've seen even fishing  oh god it's gruesome the amount of blood  that comes out of a large fish when they  drag it off the truck and drag it up the  driveway leaving a trailer but it's  amazing to me just just from fish  and fish are red-blooded animals too god  um  it's it's horrifying i've lived around  that stuff there is no sense in which it  is easy  or cheap  for a cree person an ojibwe person a  mohawk person to get a truck  uh drive out to the woods you need a  truck with a big bed kill an animal like  a moose  get the animal get the moose out of the  forest onto the back of the truck drive  it home uh prep the carcass cut off the  skin remove the bones  it's a ton of work  just the number of hours the cost of the  equipment the cost of the hunting trip  now everyone knows that about white  people most people will say hunting is  an expensive hobby and there are poor  white people who hunt there are poor  people to do it right  but for those poor people it's even more  of a priority those are poor people who  say you know who choose not to spend  money on other things to set that money  aside and make that decision make that  commitment because it really matters  them so there are poor white people who  hunt there are poor korean ojibway  people who hunt i remember talking to a  guy who was a mine manager he was the  manager for a mine  in northern canada and he really made an  effort to employ first nations people  and he expressed his frustration to me  that they would uh they were so  enthusiastic about hunting moose they  would stop everything they were doing  and devote many many hours to hunting  moose and he couldn't get any of the  same enthusiasm for them to do some of  the technical work on the mindset he  told me stories about you know the moose  hunting trips these guys would organize  from the mine site you know going out  deeper into the woods and coming back  it's a lot of work  okay  it's a moral choice it's an ethical  choice that has the same consequences  and the same significance for them or  for us  it is fundamentally racist and evil to  treat people with brown skin  as as if they're not they don't have  this agency there's this word agency as  if they don't have the responsibility of  those choices if they don't have the  understanding of it i made a video in  chinese and i talked about it recently  the videos from more than a year ago  and in that video i say which is how i  really feel about this  um  if you know  that the  meat packing industry if you know that  the slaughterhouse industry if you know  that it is evil as soon as you know that  there's a moral obligation on you  to change your life accordingly to make  decisions that reflect that knowledge it  is true we are all born ignorant  okay  i do sympathize the fact that many  indigenous people just like white people  grow up ignorant of where their food  comes from  this isn't the difference between white  people and indigenous people canada it's  something they have in common i mean  also alcoholism you think that's a  difference between white people and  vicious people can go out to the rural  white communities small white towns that  are adjacent to the the first nations  reservations those towns also have  really high rates of alcoholism often  high rates of drug use certain drugs are  very popular right now in the canadian  wilderness uh canadian small towns um  you know there's a lot of painkiller  addiction same thing in small towns in  the northern united states right now but  anyway drug and alcohol problems are  enormous in both white small towns and  first nations uh small towns there's  something they have in common right  growing up ignorant about where your  food comes from what it means to go to  the grocery store and buy a piece of  meat in a you know plastic wrapped  um container  what that means what the ethical  significance is what the ecological  assumption is we are all born ignorant  but as soon as you know as soon as you  find out  the choice you make the decision you  make is one you are responsible for and  nothing about the color of your skin  changes that nothing about the racism of  your society changes that okay the  racism of the society you live in  may really make it impossible or make it  much more difficult for you to become a  dentist  you may be lacking opportunities  but i absolutely refuse to believe this  kind of  in really profoundly racist but  ostensibly anti-racist perspective  that somehow the color of your skin or  the racism of the society around you  absolves you from the moral agency and  ethical responsibility to make the  decision of what you eat what goes in  your mouth and down your throat when you  go to the grocery store  or what kind of drugs you smoke or snort  or inject into your arm  ultimately that is on you  abalo ciel